#  An evening of linux on the desktop

[Last time](2017-06-15.md), I wrote about trying a few desktop
environments to see what's out there, keep things fresh, and keep me
from complacency. Well, as with desktop environments, so with text
editors. I decided briefly that I would try [a few of](https://atom.io/) [the more recent](https://www.sublimetext.com/) [code
editors](https://code.visualstudio.com/) that are around these days.
Lured in by their pleasing, modern visuals and their promises of a
smooth, integrated experience, I've been meaning to give these a go for
a while. Needless to say, as a long-time [vim](https://www.vim.org/)
user, I just found myself frustrated that I wasn't able to get things
done as efficiently in any of those editors as I could in vim ;) I tried
installing vim keybindings in Atom but it just wasn't the same as a very
limited set of functionality was there. As for the integrated
environment, when you have [tmux running by default](2014-06-17.md), everything's integrated anyway.

And, as with editors, so once again with desktop environments. I've
decided to retract my previous hasty promise and no longer to bother
with trying any other environments; [i3](https://i3wm.org/) is more than
fine :)

However, I did spend some time this evening making things a bit prettier
so here are some delicious configs for posterity:

## Configs

### Xresources

I've switched back to xterm from urxvt because, er... dunno.

Anyway, I set some nice colours for terminals and some magic stuff that
makes man pages all colourful :)

    XTerm*faceName: xft:Hack:regular:size=12
    *termName: xterm-256color

    ! Colourful man pages
    *VT100.colorBDMode:     true
    *VT100.colorBD:         cyan
    *VT100.colorULMode:     true
    *VT100.colorUL:         darkcyan
    *VT100.colorITMode:     true
    *VT100.colorIT:         yellow
    *VT100.veryBoldColors:  518

    ! terminal colours
    *foreground:#CCCCCC
    *background:#2B2D2E

    !black darkgray
    *color0:    #2B2D2E
    *color8:    #808080
    !darkred red
    *color1:    #FF0044
    *color9:    #F92672
    !darkgreen green
    *color2:    #82B414
    *color10:   #A6E22E
    !darkyellow yellow
    *color3:    #FD971F
    *color11:   #E6DB74
    !darkblue blue
    *color4:    #266C98
    *color12:   #7070F0
    !darkmagenta magenta
    *color5:    #AC0CB1
    *color13:   #D63AE1
    !darkcyan cyan
    *color6:    #AE81FF
    *color14:   #66D9EF
    !gray white
    *color7:    #CCCCCC
    *color15:   #F8F8F2

### Vimrc

Nothing exciting here except for discovering a few options I hadn't
previous known about:

    " Show a marker at the 80th column to encourage nice code
    set colorcolumn=80
    highlight ColorColumn ctermbg=darkblue

    " Scroll the text when we're 3 lines from the top or bottom
    set so=3

    " Use browser-style incremental search
    set incsearch

    " Override the default background colour in xoria256 to match the terminal background
    highlight Normal ctermbg=black

    " I like this theme
    colorscheme xoria256

### i3

I made a few colour tweaks to my i3 config so I get colours that match
my new Xresources. One day, I might see if it's easy enough to have them
both read colour definitions from the same place so I don't have to
define things twice.

## The result

Here's what it looks like:

![My new
desktop](https://static.offend.me.uk/media/images/blog/89/01.jpg)
