#  Back to the Primitive

I like text, plain text. Always have. But over the past several years
(and it has been, as the kids say, a hot minute since I [last
blogged](2019-11-13.html)) I've found more and more bloat creeping
into my daily life. I moved to a Mac Mini as my main machine about 4
years ago as I just gave up in the struggle between the way I think
things ought to be and the "needs" of life working for a large
corporate. In fairness, I have come to more or less enjoy MacOS but
whenever I slip back into my Arch box with my i3 desktop, it feels *so
sleek*.

Moving to the Mac has necessarily meant changing some of my regular
workflow and tools. I don't know what it is about the Mac but it seemed
to discourage me from being so heavily terminal-based as I was. I really
can't put my finger on it. Regardless, I ended up moving from taking
notes in markdown to [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) for a while and
then eventually [Logseq](https://logseq.com/). Still just markdown files
in a folder but the GUI is ever-present. I even found myself starting to
use, and almost enjoy, [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)!

Anyway, the point is, through [Late Night
Linux](https://latenightlinux.com/late-night-linux-episode-289/), I
discovered [Vimwiki](https://vimwiki.github.io/) and have started to
love the terminal (and Vim) again. In fact, I started writing some code
the other day and just automatically started it in Vim rather than VS
Code. The rot is beginning to recede eh ;)

One of the tasks I decided to bring over to Vimwiki was maintaining my
small and fairly pointless [website](https://engledow.me). In another
show of bloat, I had been through various markdown-to-website tools
(ghost, hugo, jekyll), decided I disliked something about each one, and
ended up rolling my own Python cruft. Inevitably, I came back to the
site to make some changes after a few months and had *completely*
forgotten how any of it was meant to work :) And that is what led me to
the decision to try Vimwiki for the site as well as my note-taking.

The first challenge is that, while Vimwiki supports markdown syntax, it
doesn't support it very well and requires more plugins to get it to spit
out html. Over the years, my enthusiasm for markdown has waned
considerably. I like the overall style of the markup but it's just too
ambiguous and ends up causing more problems than it solves. So... the
tool I want to use has it's own syntax and I'm not tied to my usual
preference... obviously it's time to figure out how to convert all my
existing [posts](index.html) ;)

I spent a nice afternoon discovering that [pandoc](https://pandoc.org/)
is even more lovely than I had previously realised. Writing a new reader
or writer for it is almost trivial. You write a lua file, create a few
functions to parse/create text in various formats (e.g. emphasised, code
blocks, bullet points), and then point pandoc at your lua file as if it
were any other reader/writer option.

So here we are. This very infrequently updated blog is now written in
vimwiki and I'm back to using the terminal and Vim on a daily basis like
the [last few years](2017-07-10.html) never happened.

Now to see what else I can over-enthusiastically convince myself should
be a Wiki...
