%title Steve Engledow

[[http://www.linkedin.com/in/stilvoid|LinkedIn profile]]

==Skills==

- Functional
    - Leadership
    - People Management
    - Problem solving
    - Project Management
    - DevOps
    - Agile
    - Solution Architecture
    - Software Development
- Technologies
    - Amazon Web Services
    - Linux
    - Git
    - Web Applications
- Programming
    - Python
    - Go
    - C
    - JavaScript

==Publications==

- [[https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/developer/handling-arbitrary-http-requests-in-amazon-api-gateway/|Handling arbitrary HTTP requests in Amazon API Gateway]]
- [[https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/using-git-with-aws-codecommit-across-multiple-aws-accounts/|Development Workflows on AWS]]
- [[https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/using-git-with-aws-codecommit-across-multiple-aws-accounts/|Using Git with AWS CodeCommit Across Multiple AWS Accounts]]

== Work History ==

=== Amazon Web Services ===

====Head of SA Engineering - Tech Acceleration Solutions====

- January 2024 - Present

I lead a team of software engineering experts focused on enhancing the
effectiveness of AWS Solutions Architects by delivering repeatable solutions,
internal tools, and enablement activities.

We operate across the whole SA organisation to provide highly technical skills
and services where they are needed most.

====Head of SA Engineering - UK and Ireland Solutions Architecture====

- March 2022 - January 2024
 
I lead a team of software engineering experts focused on enhancing the
effectiveness of AWS UK&I Solutions Architecture by delivering repeatable
solutions, internal tools, and enablement activities.

We operate across the whole SA organisation to provide highly technical skills
and services where they are needed most.

====Senior Solutions Engineer - UK and Ireland Solutions Architecture====

- June 2018 - March 2022

After 2 and a half years working with AWS customers in Professional Services,
I have seen a number of common challenges that we can solve by building
and sharing the right solutions.
As a Solutions Engineer, I am working with AWS customers and with our
internal teams to work backwards from customers’ needs and create reusable
solutions that meet them.
My modus operandi is iterative, results-driven, and fast-paced.

====Senior Consultant - DevSecOps SME====

- January 2016 - June 2018

As a Senior Consultant in the UK Professional Services team, I enjoyed
the opportunity to share my expertise in DevOps and knowledge of cloud
computing with our customers to further their knowledge and potential.
My role allowed me to draw on my years of experience in technical delivery,
leading and coaching Architecture, Development, and QA, and working closely
with IT/Operations departments to advise on infrastructure and CI/CD.

===Proxama===

====Head of Technical Delivery====

- December 2010 - December 2015

I led a fantastic team of developers across the proximity marketing division
of Proxama where I was responsible for technical strategy and delivery of
Proxama’s cloud-hosted services and the mobile SDK that consumes them.
My role involved architecture, line-management and technical leadership
responsibilities but I still found time to make significant contributions to the
code base.

Proxama’s platform is based on a stack of lean microservices developed
using Docker containers and deployed to Amazon Web Services. The majority
of the server-side code is written in Python with some node.js services as
appropriate. Web interfaces make use of material design libraries and the
Ember framework. The mobile SDK is written in native code both for iOS
and Android and provides an easy-to-integrate, easy-to-use interface to the
RESTful API set and proximity technology libraries.

Part of my role was to move Proxama towards a devops culture where
deployments and infrastructure provisioning is realised as code itself and
subject to the same quality controls as the software that it enables. All code at
Proxama is subject to automated testing and rigorous peer code review.

===Bertram Books===

====Software Developer====

- September 2009 - January 2011

I worked on a variety of projects ranging from backend processes right through
to customer-facing web applications in Java using Spring 3, Hibernate, and
various other technologies as needed with the user interfaces enhanced using
jQuery and AJAX techniques.

During my time at Bertrams, I contributed a lot of ideas and knowledge into
various projects. In particular, my in-depth knowledge of Linux has been
helpful in diagnosing faults and configuring several Linux servers in use.

===Provide Online===

====Web Developer====

- April 2009 - September 2009

At Provide Online, I took over a number of existing web projects with the goal
of unifying them to use one common framework and adding new functionality
to bring the sites up to date.

I overhauled a vast amount of the PHP code that was in place, installed
subversion, and optimised the Apache web server configuration – all of which
has left the sites in a far more modular and reliable state.

===Validus IVC===

====Software Developer====

- April 2008 - March 2009

I was responsible for creation and maintenance of Management Information
services developed using a combination of PHP, GWT, and BeanShell.
In addition to the above, I was also responsible for taking part in general
systems maintenance such as solving networking issues and administering
Apache servers.

===Form Recognition Ltd===

====Technical Consultant====

- April 2004 - April 2008

My time at Form Recognition provided me an opportunity to become proficient
in training users in the use of software and basic scripting.
While not visiting customer sites to provide training, I was heavily involved
in developing bespoke solutions based around the core product of the
business: Cardiff’s TeleForm. I also took on the responsibility of configuring
and maintaining the office network and servers.

===Norwich Union===

====Marketing Liaison Lead Advisor====

- July 2002 - April 2004

My role at Norwich Union revolved around interpreting communications from
the marketing teams and using a database application I had designed which
then sent communications for destruction or movement of stock to warehouse
staff.

I was responsible also for compiling the warehouse’s management information
which I left considerably more efficient than I found it.

==Education==

===University of East Anglia===

- September 1999 - June 2002

BA (Hons) in Philosophy and Linguistics

----

Career Summary

X years consulting
X years programming
X years leadership
