%title Projects
:dev:

I have a lot of half-finished crap on [[https://github.com/stilvoid|GitHub]].
This is a curated selection of the more finished, actually useful stuff.

Most of it is quite old at this point but still relevant.

== Command line tools ==
:tool:shell:

- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/babel|Babel]] is an easy-to-parse and easy-to-produce data exchange format for easing communication between processes written in different programming languages. There are definitely better choices for this now but I do have some ideas for a future iteration of this.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/git-aux|git-aux]] allows you to use git to manage replicating your dotfiles between machines and that sort of things.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/git-cube|git-cube]] reminds you to commit before you exit a shell session.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/git-get|git-get]] is another tool I still use every day.  Replaces `git clone` but organises repositories by their origin under `~/code`.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/maur|maur]] is a minimal tool for searching and installing packages from the [[https://aur.archlinux.org/|AUR]].
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/please|please]] is a command line utility that makes it easy to integrate web APIs into your shell scripts.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/ps1|PS1]] is my custom [[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Bash/Prompt_customization|bash prompt]] with some nice features.  I've been using this daily every since I wrote it.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/shue|shue]] is a command line tool for modifying and converting colour values for use with CSS etc.

== Games ==
:game:

- [[https://static.offend.me.uk/games/lockdown.html|Lockdown]] - Written for [[https://ludumdare.com/|Ludum Dare]] 50 in 2022. Survive the zombie invasion...
- [[https://static.offend.me.uk/games/muze.html|Muze]] - My entry for [[https://itch.io/jam/black-and-white-jam|Black and White Jam]] in 2021. It's a simple maze game. Probably.
- [[https://static.offend.me.uk/games/santa-dive.html|Santa's Skydive]] - My present to someone in a [[https://itch.io/jam/secret-santa|Secret Santa Jam]]. I can't remember when. Santa's sleigh has tipped over and dropped all the presents. Clearly, the only option is for Santa to skydive and gather them all back up.
- [[https://static.offend.me.uk/games/taaanks.html|Taaanks]] - Heavily inspired by [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scorched_Tanks|Scorched Tanks]]. This is my entry for [[https://ludumdare.com/|LD]] 48.
- [[https://static.offend.me.uk/games/volver.html|Volver]] - Spin the things to match the thing-holders.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/logoids|Logoids]] is an [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asteroids_(video_game)|Asteroids]] clone where you provide the Asteroid images.
- [[https://github.com/stilvoid/falsoyd|Falsoyd]] is a terrible game I wrote around 2000CE. tbh I don't know if it even compiles on modern systems.

== Music ==
:music:

For now, over on [[music|a separate page]].
