---
title: Why-fi?
---

I'm an [arch linux](http://archlinux.org) user and I love it; there's no other distro for me. The things that arch gets criticism for are the exact same reasons I love it and they all more or less boil down to one thing: arch does not hold your hand.

It's been a while since an update in arch caused me any problems but it did today.

[It seems there's an issue](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=196584) with the latest version of `wpa_supplicant` which renders it incompatible with the way wifi is setup at boot time. The problem was caught and resolved very quickly by package maintainers who simply rolled the `wpa_supplicant` package back. However, I was unlucky enough to have caught the intervening upgrade shortly before turning my laptop off. I came home this evening to find I had no wifi!

This wasn't a huge challenge but I haven't written a blog post for a while and someone might find this useful:

---

If your wifi doesn't start at boot...

And you're using [a laptop with no ethernet port](https://www.dell.com/en-us/shop/cty/xps-13-9333/spd/xps-13-9333)...

And you know an upgrade will solve your problem...

How do you get internet so you can upgrade?

Simples :)

1. First, find the name of your wireless interface:

        iw dev

    Which will output something like:

        phy#0
            Interface wlp2s0
                ifindex 2
                wdev 0x1
                addr e8:b1:fc:6c:bf:b5
                type managed
                channel 11 (2462 MHz), width: 20 MHz, center1: 2462 MHz

    Where `wlp2s0` is the bit we're interested in.

2. Now bring the interface up:

        ip link set wlp2s0 up

3. Connect to the access point:

        iw dev wlp2s0 connect "AP name"

4. Create a temporary configuration file for `wpa_supplicant`:

        wpa_passphrase "AP name" "password" > /tmp/wpa.config

5. Run `wpa_supplicant` to authenticate with the access point:

        wpa_supplication -iwlp2s0 -c/tmp/wpa.config

6. In another terminal (or you could have backgrounded the above), run `dhcpcd` to get an IP address from your router:

        dhcpcd wlp2s0

7. Update and reboot or whatever :)